I would first like to read to you some passages from the Bible found at Ephesians chapter
3 verses 14 through 19.
This will also establish the theme for my comments this month.
Ephesians 3, starting with verse 14, Paul said,
For this reason I bend my knees to the Father to whom every family in heaven and on earth
owes its name.
I pray that He may grant you through the abundance of His glory to be made mighty
in the man you are inside with power through His Spirit, and that through your faith
you may have the Christ dwell in your hearts with love.
May you be rooted and established in the foundation in order that with all the holy ones
you may be thoroughly able to comprehend fully what is the breadth and length and height
in depth and to know the love of the Christ which surpasses knowledge so that you may be
filled with all the fullness that God gives.
Verse 15 is the inspiration for my theme, namely glorified Jehovah, the one to whom every
family owes its name.
The family unit is under a vicious attack in these last days.
The insight book lived up to its name under the heading family.
The very insightful comment reads this way.
The inspired scriptures have foretold a vicious attack on the family institution with a
consequent breaking down of morality and of human society outside the congregation.
The article pointed out that in the last days a condition in which disobedience to parents,
disloyalty, and absence of natural affection would be rife, even among those having a
form of godly devotion.
How can married couples, parents, and children counteract such a diabolical attack?
Do you remember those verses we read in Ephesians chapter 3?
Verse 16 said that the one to whom every family owes its name, Jehovah, would grant us
to be made mighty in the person we are inside.
Yes.
Jehovah can give us the internal spiritual strength to fight back against Satan's efforts to
destroy the family.
How?
By being immersed in God's word, in particular, by imitating the loving way that Jesus treated
his disciples.
Did you note that Ephesians 3, 17 said, we are to have the Christ dwell in our hearts with
love?
Yes.
If each of us cherishes the Christ in our hearts to the point that he dwells or resides,
they are constantly, our family will not only survive, but it will truly thrive.
This will be so evident that verse 17 further states that we will be rooted and established
on the foundation.
We will be solid.
And keep in mind that 1 Corinthians 3, 11 says that the foundation on which we build
is Jesus Christ.
In verse 18 of Ephesians 3, it indicates that our spiritual peripheral vision will be enhanced.
We will not have spiritual blind spots that could allow the spirit of the world to creep
into the family.
That verse says that we will be thoroughly able to comprehend fully what is the breadth
and length and height and depth.
All aspects of Jesus' personality will come into play as we interact with family members.
Finally, verse 19 sums up the result when it says that we would then have come to know
the love of the Christ which surpasses knowledge, granted.
Knowledge is important, but it is the application of Christ's like love that will preserve our
family, keeping it vibrantly intact.
Family life in these critical last days could be likened to those who suffer from diabetes.
It is believed that diabetes is caused by both genetic and environmental factors.
Similarly, all in the family have inherited sin and imperfection from our first human
parents Adam and Eve as if genetically.
However, we are also exposed to the ever more toxic environmental factors of Satan's
evil world.
Most who suffer from a serious case of diabetes need to use two methods to successfully relieve
the symptoms and lead a normal life.
They have to watch their diet and in many cases take an injection of insulin daily.
Virtually, we need to avoid the sickly, sweet junk food that the world promotes in movies,
talk shows, the internet, and in print.
Just as with the person who has diabetes, this requires a permanent lifestyle change from
what we might have exposed ourselves to in the past.
In addition to avoiding unwholesome junk food from Satan's system, we also need to take
daily injections of God's Word and other wholesome provisions.
This has become more and more important, the deeper we get into these last days.
How has our organization provided this when it comes to family life?
Well, in the early 1900s, the focus was on preaching the good news.
The full attention was given to building strong Christian marriages and families.
For a time, marriage was even discouraged, well beyond the intent of the scriptures.
I did some checking and, commendably, between 1919 and 1921, there was a feature in the
Golden Age magazine once or twice a month called the Juvenile Bible Study.
In 1920, a brochure was released called the Golden Age ABC.
Then it wasn't until 1941 that the now famous book entitled Children was handed out to
all young ones at the convention that year.
But as the last days progressed, more and more information for families was produced.
For example, in the 1970s, the book making your family life happy was released.
About the same time, the books listening to the great teacher and your youth getting
the best out of it were published.
In 1982, a wait began a regular series that has run for decades entitled Young People Ask.
We now have two up-to-date books with the same title and the series of articles continues
on the JW.org website.
We have the book Learn from the Great Teacher and so many features and activities for young
ones on the website that I would be out of time if I tried to enumerate them all.
There are also regular articles in our magazines about marriage and family life.
And I will certainly never forget the privilege I had in 2012 to introduce the animated series
Become Jehovah's Friend.
That has proved to be a blessing for both young ones and their parents.
What a teaching tool for both.
In 2014, I attended the International Convention in Atlanta, Georgia here in the United States.
After a little two-year-old girl saw my face on the big jumbo screen giving a talk,
she eagerly started searching all around her for someone.
When her parents asked her who she was looking for, she said, Caleb, he must be here because
I saw his grandfather getting a talk.
Many children asked to meet Caleb in person when they visit Bethel.
Two postings of an item every month is making quite an impression on little hearts.
With Bible principles being impressed on the minds and hearts of children so early, we
prayerfully anticipate many spiritually-minded teenagers in the years to come.
We have so much healthy spiritual food for counteracting family diabetes.
For this we give all glory to Jehovah, the one to whom every family owes its name.
One of the favorite passages of Scripture that anyone professing to be Christian loves
is the 23rd Psalm.
Family heads.
Can we benefit from imitating not only the fine shepherd Jesus, but also the great shepherd,
Jehovah God?
I'm going to borrow the text of the 23rd Psalm and adjust the word so that we can sense
a family's tranquility when headship is exercised properly.
In fact, you husbands, as the Scriptures read, imagine it is your wife's voice describing
the effect your headship has on your family.
My husband is our shepherd.
We will lack nothing.
In grassy pastures, refreshing recreation, he makes us lie down.
He leads us to well-watered resting places, meetings and conventions.
He refreshes us.
He leads us in the ministry, in the paths of righteousness for the sake of Jehovah's
name.
Though we walk in the valley of deep economic shadow, we fear no harm for dad is with
us.
You rod in your staff, loving discipline reassure us.
You prepare a table of family worship helping the children for us before our enemies.
You refresh our heads with oil.
Our cup of family well-being is well-filled.
Surely goodness and loyal love will pursue our family all the days of our life.
And our family will dwell in the house of Jehovah for all our days.
No further application called for.
We feel the sense of security that envelops the interior rooms of such a home, don't we?
Do you remember the point made in Ephesians chapter 3 which we read earlier?
We are to treasure Jesus' personality and let it dwell in our heart.
If all in the family make a determined effort to treat each other like Jesus would, we
can conquer the world.
Yes, we, his spiritual family in heaven and all humans on earth who dedicate their lives
to him give glory to Jehovah.
Indeed, we thank Jehovah for all the spiritual provisions he's made through his word and
organization to protect every family who takes up his name.
Made Jehovah bless all of you families as you strive to win the war that Satan wages
against you in these last days.